twelve-year-old ethan is preparing for
his bar mitzvah
a ceremony that will mark his transition
into jewish adulthood
on his 13th birthday and then you wrap
it around your
arm seven times an important part of the
process is learning to lay his to fill
in
that jewish men strapped to their head
and arm during prayers
i've always wanted to have mother mitra
every jewish man in my family has had it
like my uncles and cousins
and i just want to make my mum dad and
family proud really
ethan uh will be called up to read from
the torah
which is a big honor seven and ever
background drama i'm proud to be jewish
but i don't really talk
about it a lot because i haven't got
really a lot of friends who are jewish
we've just got to get practice i'm
getting a little bit tighter
it's an identity it's a being and for me
even if my child chooses not to be
religious
they've been shown a path i'm feeling a
bit nervous but i think if i have a bit
more practice i think i'll do all right
being called up to read from the torah
is a key part of the bar mitzvah
ceremony
yahoo cheri shafa
fantastic oh brilliant
i told you you were brilliant
i'm twinning a boy called ellie aisman
who said he died in the holocaust from
the nazis
i'm doing mother mitzvah in his honor
basically
choosing to twin a bar mitzvah with a
child victim of the holocaust
is becoming an increasingly popular way
for children to strengthen the
connection
with their jewish heritage ellie aseman
was one of the one and a half million
jewish children
who died in the holocaust this child
along with his whole family were
completely wiped out he's been forgotten
you know his life is almost non-existent
and
and by ethan doing his permits for
for the memory of this child this boy
will never be forgotten in our family
i'm gonna light a candle for him every
holocaust memorial every year to make
sure he will never be forgotten
[Music]
i do feel a bit nervous but i mean the
rabbi has been helping me so i feel a
bit confident with him by my side
orthodox jews adhere most strictly to
traditional beliefs and practices
am i orthodox an orthodox person
wouldn't thought i'm orthodox but i'm
trying to show my children
the best version of being jewish then
you know
they can make up the decision for
themselves for ethan and his family
his coming of age is an important
milestone to mark
despite the difficult circumstances of
the past year
it's not going to be like a normal bar
mitzvah is in like
a lot of people have huge celebrations
but actually the most important thing is
that he's doing it
the moment has come for ethan to be
called
[Music]
[Applause]
ethan is now an adult in the eyes of
jewish law
responsible for living his life
according to the torah
so the most important thing about being
jewish to me is probably carrying on to
tradition
in my family my nuns and papas would be
happy i think they'll be watching over
thank you for joining me today on my bar
mitzvah today is actually just not my
beer mitzvah
i'm actually twinning my permit to a
young victim of the holocaust
let me tell you about ellie aisman ellie
was from poland where my ancestors were
from
ely didn't have a privilege of rubbing
mitzvah so today i'm honoring his name
and member
so ellie and his family will never be
forgotten and i am
so proud to be given a privilege of
being ellie's guardian
i'm really proud of myself i think i've
made my family proud